---
title: "Singapore: A City of Campaigns"
permalink: test/singapore-a-city-of-campaigns
---

> This is a test quote

Over the last five decades, Singapore has conducted many campaigns covering a wide range of topics. For instance, there have been campaigns encouraging the population to keep Singapore clean, take family planning measures, be courteous, raise productivity in the workplace and speak Mandarin as well as good English. There have also been others that remind the people not to litter, be a good neighbour, live a healthy lifestyle and even to wash their hands properly. Collectively, the purpose of these campaigns is to instill certain social behaviours and attitudes that are considered by the government to be beneficial to both the individual and the community. They are also used by the State as an instrument for policy implementation.1 
Each of the campaigns that was introduced usually followed a three-stage implementa¬tion process. First, a social problem was identified by the government before a decision to rectify the problem through a nation-wide campaign was made. Second, the campaign together with its rationale and goals was revealed in a public event. Third, a media blitz was launched to raise public awareness of the campaign. At the same time, a system of incentives and disincentives was also introduced to persuade the people to adopt the attitude and behaviour recommended by the campaign.2 

**Campaigns in the early years of nationhood**

Most of the campaigns conducted in the early years after independence were designed to lay the foundation of a new nation.3 For example, the “Keep Singapore Clean” and “Tree Planting” campaigns launched in 1968 and 1971 respectively were to establish Singapore as a country that is clean and full of greenery. In fact, the two campaigns as well as other similar campaigns were part of a larger plan that included changes in public health laws, relocation and licensing of itinerant hawkers, the development of proper sewage systems and better disease control measures, and the creation of parks and gardens. The govern¬ment believed that improving the environmental conditions of Singapore would enhance the quality of life of the population and cultivate national pride. It would also paint a better image of Singapore for foreign investors and tourists.4 
Family planning was another major focus for campaigns in the late 1960s and 1970s. With slogans such as “Small Family: Brighter Future” and “The Second Can Wait”, these campaigns recommended the setting up of small families.5 Initially, the campaigns did not dictate the ideal family size. But with the launch of the “Two is Enough” campaigns in the early 1970s, a two-child family norm was endorsed.6 The family planning campaigns came at a time when the government was faced with the formidable cost of providing education, health services, and housing to a population that was growing rapidly due to the post-war boom. Family planning was thus regarded as a necessary measure, in order for the govern¬ment to slow the country’s birth rate.7 Furthermore, the government also rationalised that smaller families helped reduce financial expenditure in households.8 
